README

The full-length test time series generated with different models are in timeseries.zip, whereas slicedTimeseries.zip contains sub-sets of the full-length time series. The sub-set definitions are given in the sliceDefinitions.txt file, which is included in slicedTimeseries.zip.  

Most time series are raw, i.e. as generated by the models without further processing steps. For the stool time series, data were processed by rarefaction to 10000 reads per sample and interpolation with method "stineman" in the stinepack R package.   

To generate the noisy time series, values of selected Ricker, Hubbell and SOI time series were sampled from a Poisson distribution that took the original value as a parameter. Prior to Poisson sampling, time series were scaled to a minimum of 1000 counts per sample.  

Time series are stored as tab-delimited tables where rows represent species and columns time points. 

SupplementaryTable1Sheets contains the sheets of Supplementary Table 1 as separate tab-delimited files. 
SupplementaryTable1_parameters lists the time series generation parameters.
SupplementaryTable1_timeseriesproperties lists the noise type percentages, maximum autocorrelation and Hurst exponent binning percentages as well as the Taylor law fit for the full-length time series of relative abundances. 
SupplementaryTable1_modelfits lists the p-values of the neutrality test and the goodness of fit for LIMITS and the SOI fitting routine.
SupplementaryTable1_shorttimeseriesproperties lists the noise type percentages, maximum autocorrelation and Hurst exponent binning percentages as well as the Taylor law fit for the time series sub-sets of relative abundances. 
SupplementaryTable1_absolutetimeseriesproperties lists the noise type percentages, maximum autocorrelation and Hurst exponent binning percentages as well as the Taylor law fit for full-length time series of absolute abundances. 
